Welcome to the second video.
What does your resume say about you?
Your resume can tell you hiring manager a lot about you.
Say you're applying for a job in research, but you do not have any numbers.
Quantitative details about your previous achievements, about your previous researchers.
Then it could tell the hiring manager that you're not invested in the outcome and you're not invested
in the details.
After all, how would you justify a job in research if you cannot convey what you're researching and
how it turned out right?
If your resume has a lot of white spaces, then it could tell the reader, in this case, the hiring
manager, that you are not efficient at using your resources.
If your resume has a lot of typos, it shows that you are not detail oriented and do not care about
the quality of your work.
If your resume is not well constructed in general, you might come across as being lazy.
It's not uncommon for hiring managers to receive more than 200 resumes for every job posting.
Now, to reduce the time spent on scanning every single one of these resumes and also to make sure that
there is no human error involved because of which good candidates can get passed up.
A lot of companies use a software called the Applicant Tracking System.
That's the 80 s.
If you have a coherent resume, it will not only meet the job description and not only meet the keywords,
but it will come across as professional.
Now, when when a hiring manager receives over 200 resumes for the same posting, they pass all these
resumes through the applicant tracking software.
And what the software does is it matches preset keywords that are relevant to the job description that
are set by the company.
Do the keywords in your resume?
So.
The key thing to remember here is if you just have random keywords on your resume that match the job
description.
Then it will pass the test.
But once it passes, when they take a look at it, then your resume will come across as unprofessional.
So the key is to show your hiring manager, your future hiring manager, how you can solve their problem
in the way they want.
And also be professional and detail oriented about it.
Now this is what you will need going forward.
And in the next video we'll take a look at or we'll talk about what hiring managers and recruiting managers
look for in general.
Thank you for watching.
And I hope I was able to add value.